DISCLAIMER: This document is being furnished to you for your information by PRS
Legislative Research (PRS). The contents of this document have been obtained from sources
PRS believes to be reliable. These contents have not been independently verified, and PRS
makes no representation or warranty as to the accuracy, completeness or correctness. In
some cases the Principal Act and/or Amendment Act may not be available. Principal Acts
may or may not include subsequent amendments. For authoritative text, please contact the
relevant state department concerned or refer to the latest government publication or the
gazette notification. Any person using this material should take their own professional and
legal advice before acting on any information contained in this document. PRS or any persons
connected with it do not accept any liability arising from the use of this document. PRS or any
persons connected with it shall not be in any way responsible for any loss, damage, or distress
to any person on account of any action taken or not taken on the basis of this document.
The Sikkim Local Fund Audit Act, 2012
Act 22 of 2012
Keyword(s):
Auditor, Concurrent Audit, Detailed Audit, Local Fund, Special Audit, Fund,
Audit
SIKKIM
GOVERNMENT
GAZETTE
EXTRAORDINARY
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY
Gangtok 30TH June 2012
No.312
GOVERNMENT OF SIKKIM
LAND REVENUE & DISASTER MANAGEMENT DEPARTMENT
No. 22/LD/P/12
Dated: 21.6.2012
NOTIFICATION
The following Act passed by the Sikkim Legislative Assembly and having received the assent of the
Governor on 3rd day of May, 2012 is hereby published for general information:-
THE SIKKIM LOCAL FUND AUDIT ACT, 2012
Act No. 22 of 2012
Arrangement of Sections
1.
Short title, extent and commencement.
2.
Definitions.
3.
Appointment of Director.
4.
Audit of accounts.
5.
Power of audit of accounts of certain authorities, bodies, institutions or funds.
6.
Audit of accounts of stock and stores and verification of cash balance.
7.
Manner in which audit is to be conducted.
8.
Auditor to be deemed to be public servant.
9.
Liability of local authorities to prepare and present accounts for audit.
10.
Completion of audit of accounts.
11.
Power of auditor to require production of accounts and attendance of persons.
12.
Audit reports to be sent to certain officers and bodies as Government may direct.
13.
Contents of audit report.
14.
Procedure to be followed after getting the report of the Director under section 13.
15.
Powers and Duties of the Director
16.
Delegation of powers and functions.
17.
Power to dispense with detailed audit.
18.
Defalcation or loss in money or stores to be reported by the Executive authority.
19.
Laying of audit report.
20.
Protection of action taken in good faith.
21.
Special provision for pending audit.
22.
Power of Government to make rules.
23.
Power to remove difficulties.
24.
Savings.
THE SIKKIM LOCAL FUND AUDIT BILL, 2012
BILL NO 22 OF 2012
AN
ACT
to provide for and to regulate the audit of the local funds under the
management
or
control of certain local authorities in the State of Sikkim.
WHEREAS it is expedient to provide for and to regulate the audit of the local funds under the
management or control of certain local authorities in the State of Sikkim;
BE it enacted by the Legislature of Sikkim in the Sixty Third Year of the Republic of India as
follows:-
Short title, extent
and commencement
1. (1) This Act may be called the Sikkim Local Fund
Audit
Act, 2012.
(2) It extends to the whole of Sikkim.
(3)
It shall come into force on such date as the State Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette appoint.
Definition
2.
In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
„auditor‟ means the Director of Local Fund Audit and
includes any
other officer of the Local Fund Audit
Directorate
empowered
by
the
Director to perform the functions of an auditor under this Act;
(b)
„concurrent audit‟ means continuous audit of accounts of a local
authority by auditors specially appointed by
the Government by
virtue of the powers conferred on them by the relevant enactments;
(c)
„detailed audit‟ means an audit of accounts of the entire transactions
for the whole year or for the period
specified by the Director;
(d)
„Director‟ means the Director of Local Fund Audit and includes any
person empowered by the Government to
perform the functions of the
Director of Local Fund Audit.
(e)
„Executive Authority‟ means the Executive Authority of the Local
Authority;
(f)
“Government” means the State Government of Sikkim.
(g)
„local authority‟ means-
(i)
a Municipal Corporation or a Municipal Council/Nagar
Panchayat
constituted
under
the
Sikkim
Municipal
Corporations Act, 2007 (5 of 2007) and Part IX A of the
Constitution of India or a Gram Panchayat/Zilla Panchayat or
District Planning Committee constituted or deemed to have
been constituted for the local administration of a Panchayat
area under the Sikkim Panchayat Act, 1993 in accordance
with the provisions of Part IX of the Constitution of India;
(ii)
Any other authority, body or institution established
by
or under any law or orders of the
Government
and
responsible for the
administration of a local fund;
(h)
„Local Fund‟ means -
(i)
a fund administered by the local authority which, though not
part of a Government Department, has been established by or
under the law or orders of the Government, and
(ii)
any other fund which the Government may, by notification in
the Official Gazette, declare to be a local fund for the
purpose of this Act;
(i)
„Prescribed‟ means prescribed by rules made under this Act;
(j)
„Schedule‟ means the Schedule appended to this
Act;
(k)
„Special Audit‟ means an audit of accounts pertaining to a
specified items or series of items requiring thorough
examination, and includes re-audit of the accounts for a
period already covered by audit as specified by the Director;
(l)
„State‟ means the State of Sikkim.
Appointment of
Director
3. (1)
The State Government shall, by Notification in
the Official Gazette, appoint a person, having
such
qualifications as may be prescribed, to be
the Director of Local Fund Audit In-charge
of
the Audit of Accounts of a Local Authority or a Local
Fund included in
the Schedule.
(2)
The State Government may appoint such other officer in the Local
Fund Audit Directorate to assist the Director in the exercise of his
powers and the discharge of his functions and duties under this Act.
(3)
All officers and staff of the Local Fund Audit Directorate shall be
sub-ordinate to the Director who shall have general superintendence
and
control over them in the performance of their functions under
this Act or the rules made there under.
Audit of accounts
4. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other
law
for the time being in force, but subject to the
provisions of the
Comptroller and Auditor
General,
(Duties, Powers and Conditions of
Service)
Act, 1971 the Director shall, in the
manner provided by
or under this Act, conduct
the audit of accounts of a
local authority or a
local fund included in the Schedule.
(2)
The State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette
and for reasons to be specified therein, add any other authority, body,
institution or local fund to the Schedule referred to in sub-section (1)
and on the publication of the notification, such authority, body,
institution or local fund shall be deemed to have been added to the
Schedule.
(3)
No authority, body, institution or local fund included in the Schedule
referred to in sub-section (1) shall be omitted there from except by
the authority of a law made by the State Legislature.
Power of audit of
Accounts of certain
Authorities, bodies
Institution or funds 5.
The Director may, with the previous sanction of the
State Government, and without prejudice to the
provisions of sub-section (1) of section 4, audit the
accounts of any authority, body, institution or fund not
included in
the Schedule subject to such terms and
conditions as may
be agreed upon between the Director
and the person responsible for the
administration of
such authority, body, institution or fund.
Audit of accounts
of stock and stores
And verification of
Cash balance
6.
(1)
The auditors shall have authority to audit and
report on the accounts of stores and stock kept
by a
local authority specified in the Schedule.
(2)
The Director may, with the sanction of
Government, seek the services of any technical
expert for the purpose referred in sub-section (1)
if,
in his opinion, it is necessary to do so.
(3)
An officer not below the rank of a Deputy Director shall
have authority to make surprise inspection of the stock and
stores kept by a local authority specified in the Schedule.
(4)
The Director/auditor shall verify the cash
balance of the fund at the time of audit and
inspection.
Manner in which
Audit is to be
Conducted 7.
The auditor shall conduct the audit annually and at
such
intervals
as
may be decided by the Director or
may conduct concurrent audit of
such of those local
authorities as are found necessary under the
provisions
of any law governing them or as may be decided by the
Director in consultation with the Government.
Auditor to be
deemed to be
Public Servant 8.
An auditor shall, for the purpose of powers and duties
conferred
and
imposed on him by or under this Act, be
deemed to be a public
servant within the meaning of section 21 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860
(45 of 1860).
Liability of local
Authorities to
Prepare and
Present accounts
for audit. 9.
The accounts of a local authority or a local fund included
in
the
Schedule relating to a financial year shall be prepared or caused to be
prepared by the Executive authority, in such form and in such
manner as may be prescribed, and presented for audit within
three months of the close of that financial year.
Copmpletion of audit
of accounts
10.
The audit of the accounts prepared and presented for
audit under
section 9 shall be completed by the auditor
within six months of the
date of its presentation for
audit.
Power of auditor
to require production
of accounts and
attendance of
persons
11.
(1)
For the purpose of an audit under this Act,
an auditor may:-
(a)
require in writing, the production at the place of
audit,
such
vouchers,
statements,
returns,
correspondences, notes or any other documents the
perusal or examination of which he believes to be
necessary for the elucidation of the accounts;
(b)
require in writing, any employee of the local
authority accountable for or having the custody or
control of such vouchers, statements, returns,
correspondences, notes or other documents or any
person having directly or indirectly, any share or
interest in any contract with or under the local
authority to appear in person before him at the head
office of that local authority or at the place of audit
and answer any question and require any person so
appearing to make and sign a declaration with
respect to such document or to prepare and furnish
any statement relating thereto; and
(c)
in the event of any explanation being required from
any officer or member of a local authority, in
writing, invite such person and shall in writing,
specify the points on which his explanation is
required.
(2)
The auditor may, in any requisition made under sub-section
(1), fix a reasonable period of not less than three days within
which the said requisition shall be complied with.
(3)
The auditor shall give notice in writing to the Executive
authority of the institution concerned at least two weeks
before the date on which he proposes to commence the audit:
Provided that the auditor may, for special reasons to
be recorded in writing, give shorter notice than two weeks or
commence a special or detailed audit without notice, on the
order of the Director.
Audit reports to be
sent to certain officers
bodies as Government
may direct 12.
As soon as practicable after the completion of the audit, but
not later than three months thereafter, the auditor
shall send to the local authority concerned a report
on
the accounts audited and examined by him and the
copies of the report shall also be sent to such officer
and such bodies as the Government may direct or as
may be specified under the law governing that local
authority.
Contents of
Audit report
13.
The auditor shall include in the audit report a statement of;
(a)
every payment which appears to him to be contrary to law;
(b)
the amount of any deficiency or loss which appears to have
been caused by the negligence or misconduct of any person;
(c)
the cases of misappropriation or misutilisation of the local
fund;
(d)
the amount, if any, received which is required to be brought
into account but has not been brought into account by any
person; and
(e)
any other material impropriety or irregularity which he has
observed in the accounts.
Procedure to be
Followed after
Getting the report
of the Director
under Section 12
14. (1)
On receipt of a report under section 12, the
Executive authority concerned shall either
remedy the defects or irregularities which may
have been pointed out in the report and send to
the
Director within three months of the receipt of
the report or within
such period as may be
specified under the law governing
the local
authority, intimation of his having done so,
or
shall, within the said period, supply to the
Director any further explanation as he may wish
to
make in regard to the defects or irregularities.
(2)
On receipt of such intimation or explanation, the auditor
may, in respect of all or any of the matters discussed in his
report:-
(a)
accept the intimation or explanation and drop
the
objection; or
(b) hold that the defects or irregularities
pointed out
in the report or any of them have not been removed or
remedied.
(3)
The auditor shall send a report of his decision to the
Executive authority concerned within three months from the
date of receipt by him of the intimation or explanation
referred in sub-section (1) or if no such intimation or
explanation is received, on the expiry of the period of two
months mentioned in that sub-section.
(4)
The local authority concerned shall publish in its next
administration report, such portions of the report under
section 12, dealing with defects and irregularities falling
under clause (b) of sub-section (2) together with the
explanation thereof, if any, given under sub-section (1) and
the final report of the auditor thereon under sub-section (3).
The report of defects and irregularities, the explanation
thereon and the final report shall be open to inspection by the
public at the office of the local authority for a period of one
month from the date of their receipt.
(5)
Nothing in this section or in section 12 shall preclude the
auditor, at any time, from bringing to the notice of the
Government or of any officer of Government for such action
as may be necessary, any information which appears to the
auditor
to
support
a
presumption
of
criminal
misappropriation or fraud or which, in his opinion, deserves
special attention or immediate investigation.
Powers and duties
of the Director
15. (1)
The Director shall exercise general supervision
and control over the discharge by the auditors of
their duties
under this Act.
(2)
He may condone a payment made from a local fund, which
appears to him contrary to law, if
(i)
in his opinion there was no negligence or misconduct
on the part of person making or authorizing such
payment, and
(ii)
such payments does not exceed rupees one hundred
in each case.
Delegation of Powers
and functions
16.
The Director may, delegate all or any of the
powers to be exercised or functions to be
performed by him under this Act to any Officer of
the
Local Fund Audit Directorate and may in like
manner withdraw
such powers and functions so
delegated.
Power to dispense
with detailed audit
17.
The Director may, when circumstances so warrant,
dispense with detailed audit of any account or class of
transactions and apply such limited check in relation to
such accounts or transactions as he may deem fit.
Defalcation or loss
in money or stores
to be reported by
the Executive Authority
18.
(1)
Whenever any defalcation or loss in money
or stores of a local authority is discovered
the
fact shall be promptly reported by the
Executive authority to the Director and to
the
Controlling Authority giving in detail the
circumstances which led to such defalcation or
loss.
Note:- In this sub-section Controlling Authority means the Head of the Department
concerned.
(2)
On receipt of a report under sub-section (1), the Director
shall immediately conduct or cause to be conducted a special
audit of the accounts of that local authority as he considers
necessary depending upon the magnitude of such defalcation
or loss:
Provided that nothing in this section shall prevent the local
authority from taking criminal proceedings against any
person suspected of, or involved in, any defalcation or loss of
money or stores, where such a course is considered
expedient.
Laying of audit
report
19.
The Director shall send to the Government annually a consolidated
report of the accounts audited by him containing such particulars
which he intends to bring to their notice and the Government shall
within a period of three months after the receipts of the same; cause it
to be laid before the Legislative Assembly.
Protection of action
taken in good
faith
20.
No suit, prosecution or other legal proceedings shall lie against the
Director or any officer acting under the provisions of this Act for anything
which is, in good
faith, done or intended to be done under this Act or
rules made there under.
Special provision
for pending audit
21.
All audit of accounts pending at the commencement of
this Act in respect of any local authority or local fund
included in the Schedule shall, notwithstanding anything contained in
this Act, be continued and completed by the Director, within such
time as may be prescribed, in the same manner in which such
accounts were being audited by him, as if this Act had not been
enacted.
Power of the State
Government to
make rules
22.
(1)
The State Government may, by notification
in the Official Gazette, make rules for the
purpose of carrying into effect of this Act.
(2)
In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the
foregoing power, such rules may provide for all or any of the
following matters, namely:-
(a)
the manner and the form in which the accounts of a
local authority whose accounts are subject to audit
under this Act, shall be kept and presented;
(b)
the powers and duties of auditors and the procedure
to be followed by them for conducting an audit and
the period at which such audit may be conducted;
(c)
the manner in which the matters required to be
published under this Act shall be published; and
(d)
all other matters, which may be or are required to
be prescribed.
(3)
Every rule made under this Act shall be laid as soon as may
be after it is made before the Legislative Assembly while it is
in session and if, the Legislative Assembly makes any
modification in the rule or decides that the rule should not be
made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such
modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so,
however, that any such modification or annulment shall be
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done
under the rule.
Power to remove
difficulties 23.
If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act,
the Government may, by order, as occasion may require, do anything
not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act which appears to
them to be necessary or expedient for the purpose of removing the
difficulty.
Savings 24.
The provisions of this Act shall not apply to any case, suit, appeal,
revision petition or any other proceedings that may be pending at the
commencement of this Act before an auditor, civil court or the
Government and the law in force immediately before the
commencement of this Act shall, notwithstanding anything contained
in this Act, continue to apply to such cases, suits, appeals, revision
petitions and other proceedings.
THE SCHEDULE
[See section 3 (1)]
1.
All Municipal Corporations
2.
All Municipalities
3.
All Gram Panchayat Units
4.
All Zilla Panchayats
( R. K. Purkayastha )SSJS
L.R-cum-Secretary
Law Department.
File No.16(82)Law Department/1977-2012